docs/config.rst, before:

Configuration
=============

MTDA will reads it configuration from:

 * $HOME/.mdta/config
 * /etc/mtda/config

Configuration files are similar to what’s found in Microsoft Windows INI
files (Python's `configparser` module is used to parse them).

It is possible to override some settings using environment variables.

General settings
----------------

* ``main``: section [optional]
    Usually placed at the top of MTDA configuration files. It contains general
    settings.

  * ``debug``: integer [optional]
      Level of debug messages to print out while running (set to 0 to turn all
      debug messages off).

  * ``fuse``: boolean [optional]
      Enable support for mounting partitions from the shared device using FUSE
      instead of ``losetup`` and ``mount``. This feature is experimental and
      requires ``partitionfs``, ``fuseext2`` and ``fusefat``.

  * ``name``: string [optional]
      Name of this agent on the network (defaults to hostname).

* ``pastebin``: section [optional]
  Support for posting console content to services like pastebin.com. An API key
  is required and may be specified with:

  * ``api-key``: string [optional]
    Define the API key to be passed to the pastebin service

  * ``endpoint``: string [optional]
    Specify an alternate pastebin service (defaults to
    http://pastebin.com/api/api_post.php)

* ``ui``: section [optional]
  User Interface settings for the console. This is relevant only for MTDA clients.

  * ``prefix``: string [optional]
      Change the key prefix to control the interactive MTDA console. The default
      prefix is ``ctrl-a`` (which is also used by the ``screen`` tool, this
      setting may be used to use e.g. ``ctrl-b`` instead).

* ``console``: section [optional]
    Specify console settings when running the agent-side of MTDA (this section
    is ignored when running MTDA as a client). The ``variant`` key should be
    set, other settings in this section are variant-specific.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a console variant. MTDA provides the following drivers: ``serial``
      and ``telnet``.

* ``keyboard``: section [optional]
    Specify a keyboard driver.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a keyboard driver between ``hid`` and ``qemu``.

* ``monitor``: section [optional]
    Specify settings for the monitor console when running the agent-side of
    MTDA (this section is ignored when running MTDA as a client). The
    ``variant`` key should be set, other settings in this section are
    variant-specific.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a console variant. MTDA provides the following drivers: ``serial``
      and ``telnet``.

* ``power``: section [optional]
    Configure a power controller for the device attached to MTDA. The driver
    may be selected with ``variant``.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a power variant from ``aviosys_8800``, ``gpio``, ``pduclient``, 
      ``qemu``, ``shellcmd`` and ``usbrelay``.

* ``remote``: section [optional]
    Specify the host and ports to connect to when using a MTDA client (such as
    ``mtda-cli``).

  * ``control``: integer [optional]
      Remote port listening for control commands (defaults to ``5556``).

  * ``console``: integer [optional]
      Remote port to connect to in order to get console messages (defaults to
      ``5557``).

  * ``host``: string [optional]
      Remote host name or ip to connect to as a client to interact with the
      MTDA agent (defaults to ``localhost``).

* ``scripts``: section [optional]
    Python scripts to be executed upon certain events. Use ``... `` instead of
    hard/soft spaces to preserve indentation.

  * ``power off``: string [optional]
      Execute a Python script when the device is powered off.
     
  * ``power on``: string [optional]
      Execute a Python script when the device is powered on such as the
      following::

          if 'boot-from-sd' in env and env['boot-from-sd'] == '1':
          ... mtda.monitor_wait("Hit any key to stop autoboot")
          ... mtda.monitor_send(" ")
          ... mtda.monitor_send("run bootcmd_mmc0\n")

      This sample script would instruct MTDA to wait for the ``Hit any key to
      stop autoboot`` on the ``monitor`` interface before sending a space and
      sending a custom boot command.
 
* ``storage``: section [optional]
    Configure a shared storage driver that may be swapped between the device
    attached to MTDA and the host running the agent. The driver will be
    selected with ``variant``.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a shared storage variant from ``docker``, ``qemu``, ``samsung``
      and ``usbf``.

* ``usb``: section [optional]
    Specify how many USB ports may be controlled from this agent.

  * ``ports``: integer [optional]
      Number of USB ports. Each port should then be configured with its own
      ``[usbN]`` section where ``N`` is the port index (starting from ``1``).

* ``video``: section [optional]
    Configure a video capture driver to stream what is displayed on the
    Device Under Test. The driver will be selected with ``variant``.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a ``video`` variant: ``mjpg_streamer`` is the only supported
      driver at this time.

* ``www``: section [optional]
   A lightweight web server will be started when this section is present.
   The following parameters may be customized:

  * ``port``: integer [optional]
      Port to run the HTTP service on (defaults to 5000).

  * ``host``: string [optional]
      Host address to listen on. This defaults to ``127.0.0.1`` to only
      accept connections from the machine running the MTDA service.
      Change to ``0.0.0.0`` to accept connections from anywhere.

Console and Monitor settings
----------------------------

The ``[console]`` and ``[monitor]`` sections respectively configure the user
and monitor consoles for interacting with the device under test. The monitor
console is optional (most devices have a single console). Data received on the
user console will be streamed to MTDA clients while data received from the
monitor interface will be logged in a ring buffer (that clients may read).
For both consoles, the driver is selected with the ``variant`` setting.
Options specific to each driver are documented below.

``docker`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the ``docker`` console driver when the power driver is also set to ``docker``.
This driver will interact with the selected container over a docker socket. There
are no further settings for this driver.

``qemu`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the ``qemu`` console driver when the power driver is also set to ``qemu``.
This driver will interact with the emulated serial device. There are no further
settings for this driver.

``serial`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``serial`` driver may be used when the device uses a serial console. The
following may be configured:

* ``port``: string [required]
    Path to the serial device on the host running the MTDA agent (for
    example /dev/ttyS0).

* ``rate``: integer [optional]
    The baud rate used by the device to communicate with the MTDA agent. This
    setting defaults to ``115200``.

``telnet`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some power distribution racks also include serial interfaces that are exposed
to remote clients via telnet. Some debug boards may also be attached to custom
hardware designs. The ``telnet`` driver may be used in such configurations and
supports the following settings:

* ``host``: string [required]
    Hostname of the telnet server.

* ``port``: integer [optional]
    The port on which the telnet server is running (defaults to ``23``).

* ``delay``: integer [optional]
    Time interval (in seconds) to wait for before trying to reconnect to the
    telnet server (defaults to 5 seconds).

* ``timeout``: integer [optional]
    Timeout (in seconds) for each connect.

Power settings
--------------

The ``[power]`` section configures a power controller to power the device on or
off. The driver is selected with the ``variant`` setting. Driver-specific
settings are detailed below.

``aviosys_8800`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``aviosys_8800`` driver supports the USB controller power outlet from
Aviosys. The following settings are supported:

* ``pid``: integer [optional]
    The USB product ID of the power outlet (defaults to ``2303``).

* ``vid``: integer [optional]
    The USB vendor ID of the power outlet (defaults to ``067b``).

``docker`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``docker`` driver may be used to use a docker container instead of a
physical device. The following settings are supported:

* ``image``: string [optional]
    The docker image to use for this container. This setting defaults to
    ``alpine``.

* ``command``: string [optional]
    The command to execute when the container is started. The default
    commmand is ``sh``.

``gpio`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``gpio`` driver may be used to control a simple electric relay using GPIO
lines from the system running the MTDA agent. The following settings are
supported:

* ``pin``: integer [deprecated, required]
    Specify the GPIO pin number to be used to control the relay.

* ``pins``: string [required]
    Comma separated list of GPIO pins to toggle relays driving power of
    the device.

``pduclient`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``pduclient`` driver may be used to let a LAVA instance control the power
of the device attached to MTDA. The following settings are supported:

* ``daemon``: string [required]
    Determines the hostname of the hostname which is running ``lavapdu-listen``
    to which the MTDA agent can connect to and send power commands.

* ``hostname``: string [required]
    The PDU which will run power commands sent by the MTDA agent.

* ``port``: integer [required]
    The port on the specified PDU to which the device is connected.

``qemu`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``qemu`` driver may be used to use QEMU/KVM instead of a physical device.
The following settings are supported:

* ``bios``: string [optional]
    The BIOS to be loaded by QEMU/KVM.

* ``cpu``: string [optional]
    The CPU to be emulated by QEMU/KVM.

* ``smp``: integer [optional]
    ``smp=<NUMBER>`` specifies the number of cores the guest is permitted to
    use. The number can be higher than the available cores on the host system.
    Use ``smp=0`` to use all currently available cores.

* ``executable``: string [optional]
    The QEMU/KVM executable to use as system emulator. This setting defaults
    to ``kvm``

* ``hostname``: string [optional]
    Name of emulated machine to be provided by QEMU/KVM internal DHCP server.

* ``machine``: string [optional]
    The QEMU/KVM machine to emulate.

* ``memory``: integer [optional]
    The amount of memory (in mega-bytes) for the emulated machime (defaults to
    512 MiB).

* ``pflash_ro``: string [optional]
    Path to the read-only firmware flash.

* ``pflash_rw``: string [optional]
    Path to the read-write firmware flash.

* ``storage``: string [optional]
    Path to the emulated machine storage. Use ``storage.0``, ``storage.1``,
    etc. if more than one system drive should be emulated.

* ``storage.size``: integer [optional]
    Size in GB for emulated machine storage. Use ``storage.0.size``,
    ``storage.1.size``, etc. if more than one system drive should be emulated.

    *Note* an existing storage device will not be recreated or deleted based
    on a config change. To trigger recreation delete your storage devices
    manualy.

* ``swtpm``: string [optional]
    Path to the ``swtpm`` binary to support emulation of a TPM device.

* ``watchdog``: string [optional]
    Name of the watchdog driver provided by QEMU/KVM for the selected machine.

``shellcmd`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``shellcmd`` driver may be used to control power switch with custom shell
commands, e.g. curl requests:

* ``on-cmd``: string [required]
    Power-on shell command. The return code should be 1 on success.

* ``off-cmd``: string [required]
    Power-off shell command. The return code should be 1 on success.

* ``check-on``: string [required]
    Shell command to check the power state. Should return 0 if power is on, 1
    if it is off. Any other return code is interpreted as error.

``usbrelay`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``usbrelay`` driver may be used to control USB HID relays attached to the
system running the MTDA agent. The following settings are supported:

* ``lines``: string [required]
    Comma separated list of lines to toggle relays driving power of
    the device.

Shared storage settings
-----------------------

The ``[storage]`` section configures a shared storage device that may be used
either from the device under test or from the host running the MTDA agent. The
driver is selected with the ``variant`` setting. Driver-specific settings are
detailed below.

``samsung`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``samsung`` driver supports both SD Mux and SD Wire and may used to share
a SD card between the DUT and host. The following settings are supported:

* ``device``: string [optional]
  Block device for the shared storage as seen on the host (defaults to
  ``/dev/sda``)

* ``serial``: string [optional]
  Identifier of the sdmux/sdwire device to use (defaults to ``sdmux``). Use
  ``sd-mux-ctrl`` to list available devices.

``usbf`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``usbf`` driver adds a Mass Storage function to the USB composite
configuration to expose either a file or a physical device or partition to
the DUT as a Mass Storage device. The following settings are supported:

* ``device``: string [optional]
  Block device for the shared storage as seen on the host. This is the
  same as ``file`` but a warning will be issued if the specified file
  is not a block device. When both ``device`` and ``file`` are set,
  ``file`` will be used.

* ``file``: string [optional]
  File or block device for the shared storage as seen on the host.

Timeout settings
----------------

The ``[timeouts]`` section allows various timeouts to be configured:

* ``lock``: integer [optional]
  Automatically release the DUT after the specified number of minutes.

* ``power``: integer [optional]
  Automatically power off the DUT if there are no active sessions. Use
  ``0`` to disable.

* ``session``: integer [optional]
  Mark a session inactive after the specified number of minutes.

Video capture settings
----------------------

The ``[video]`` section configures a video capture device to stream the
contents of the device display. The driver is selected with the ``variant``
setting. Driver-specific settings are detailed below.

``mjpg_streamer`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``mjpg_streamer`` driver supports Webcams and video capture devices
such as the Tihokile HDMI capture dongle. The following settings are
supported:

* ``device``: string [optional]
  Video device to grab MJPEG images from (defaults to ``/dev/video0``)

* ``port``: integer [optional]
  HTTP port to serve on (defaults to ``8080``)

* ``resolution``: string [optional]
  Resolution of the video stream (defaults to ``1280x780``)

* ``www``: string [optional]
  Path to static web pages to serve (defaults to
  ``/usr/share/mjpg-streamer/www``)

Point VLC (or similar) to ``http://<mtda-ip-or-name>:8080/?action=stream``
to stream video from the Device Under Test.

``qemu`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``qemu`` driver may be used with clients supporting the RFB (VNC)
protocol. The following settings are supported:

* ``sink``: string [optional]
  GStreamer sink element to be used on the client-side for rendering

The ``url()`` method of the driver will return the GStreamer pipeline
to be used on the client side.

Commit message:

power/gpio: replace gpio sysfs operations with libgpiod
Since linux kernel v4.8 the GPIO Sysfs ABI is deprecated[1]. This
commit replaces the existing gpio controls which uses sysfs with
the new GPIO Char Device API(libgpiod).

A new 'gpiochip' property is now required when using 'gpio' variant
for power.

[1](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/gpio/sysfs.txt)

Signed-off-by: bhargavdas <bhargav_das@mentor.com>

docs/config.rst, after:

Configuration
=============

MTDA will reads it configuration from:

 * $HOME/.mdta/config
 * /etc/mtda/config

Configuration files are similar to what’s found in Microsoft Windows INI
files (Python's `configparser` module is used to parse them).

It is possible to override some settings using environment variables.

General settings
----------------

* ``main``: section [optional]
    Usually placed at the top of MTDA configuration files. It contains general
    settings.

  * ``debug``: integer [optional]
      Level of debug messages to print out while running (set to 0 to turn all
      debug messages off).

  * ``fuse``: boolean [optional]
      Enable support for mounting partitions from the shared device using FUSE
      instead of ``losetup`` and ``mount``. This feature is experimental and
      requires ``partitionfs``, ``fuseext2`` and ``fusefat``.

  * ``name``: string [optional]
      Name of this agent on the network (defaults to hostname).

* ``pastebin``: section [optional]
  Support for posting console content to services like pastebin.com. An API key
  is required and may be specified with:

  * ``api-key``: string [optional]
    Define the API key to be passed to the pastebin service

  * ``endpoint``: string [optional]
    Specify an alternate pastebin service (defaults to
    http://pastebin.com/api/api_post.php)

* ``ui``: section [optional]
  User Interface settings for the console. This is relevant only for MTDA clients.

  * ``prefix``: string [optional]
      Change the key prefix to control the interactive MTDA console. The default
      prefix is ``ctrl-a`` (which is also used by the ``screen`` tool, this
      setting may be used to use e.g. ``ctrl-b`` instead).

* ``console``: section [optional]
    Specify console settings when running the agent-side of MTDA (this section
    is ignored when running MTDA as a client). The ``variant`` key should be
    set, other settings in this section are variant-specific.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a console variant. MTDA provides the following drivers: ``serial``
      and ``telnet``.

* ``keyboard``: section [optional]
    Specify a keyboard driver.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a keyboard driver between ``hid`` and ``qemu``.

* ``monitor``: section [optional]
    Specify settings for the monitor console when running the agent-side of
    MTDA (this section is ignored when running MTDA as a client). The
    ``variant`` key should be set, other settings in this section are
    variant-specific.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a console variant. MTDA provides the following drivers: ``serial``
      and ``telnet``.

* ``power``: section [optional]
    Configure a power controller for the device attached to MTDA. The driver
    may be selected with ``variant``.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a power variant from ``aviosys_8800``, ``gpio``, ``pduclient``, 
      ``qemu``, ``shellcmd`` and ``usbrelay``.

* ``remote``: section [optional]
    Specify the host and ports to connect to when using a MTDA client (such as
    ``mtda-cli``).

  * ``control``: integer [optional]
      Remote port listening for control commands (defaults to ``5556``).

  * ``console``: integer [optional]
      Remote port to connect to in order to get console messages (defaults to
      ``5557``).

  * ``host``: string [optional]
      Remote host name or ip to connect to as a client to interact with the
      MTDA agent (defaults to ``localhost``).

* ``scripts``: section [optional]
    Python scripts to be executed upon certain events. Use ``... `` instead of
    hard/soft spaces to preserve indentation.

  * ``power off``: string [optional]
      Execute a Python script when the device is powered off.
     
  * ``power on``: string [optional]
      Execute a Python script when the device is powered on such as the
      following::

          if 'boot-from-sd' in env and env['boot-from-sd'] == '1':
          ... mtda.monitor_wait("Hit any key to stop autoboot")
          ... mtda.monitor_send(" ")
          ... mtda.monitor_send("run bootcmd_mmc0\n")

      This sample script would instruct MTDA to wait for the ``Hit any key to
      stop autoboot`` on the ``monitor`` interface before sending a space and
      sending a custom boot command.
 
* ``storage``: section [optional]
    Configure a shared storage driver that may be swapped between the device
    attached to MTDA and the host running the agent. The driver will be
    selected with ``variant``.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a shared storage variant from ``docker``, ``qemu``, ``samsung``
      and ``usbf``.

* ``usb``: section [optional]
    Specify how many USB ports may be controlled from this agent.

  * ``ports``: integer [optional]
      Number of USB ports. Each port should then be configured with its own
      ``[usbN]`` section where ``N`` is the port index (starting from ``1``).

* ``video``: section [optional]
    Configure a video capture driver to stream what is displayed on the
    Device Under Test. The driver will be selected with ``variant``.

  * ``variant``: string [required]
      Select a ``video`` variant: ``mjpg_streamer`` is the only supported
      driver at this time.

* ``www``: section [optional]
   A lightweight web server will be started when this section is present.
   The following parameters may be customized:

  * ``port``: integer [optional]
      Port to run the HTTP service on (defaults to 5000).

  * ``host``: string [optional]
      Host address to listen on. This defaults to ``127.0.0.1`` to only
      accept connections from the machine running the MTDA service.
      Change to ``0.0.0.0`` to accept connections from anywhere.

Console and Monitor settings
----------------------------

The ``[console]`` and ``[monitor]`` sections respectively configure the user
and monitor consoles for interacting with the device under test. The monitor
console is optional (most devices have a single console). Data received on the
user console will be streamed to MTDA clients while data received from the
monitor interface will be logged in a ring buffer (that clients may read).
For both consoles, the driver is selected with the ``variant`` setting.
Options specific to each driver are documented below.

``docker`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the ``docker`` console driver when the power driver is also set to ``docker``.
This driver will interact with the selected container over a docker socket. There
are no further settings for this driver.

``qemu`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the ``qemu`` console driver when the power driver is also set to ``qemu``.
This driver will interact with the emulated serial device. There are no further
settings for this driver.

``serial`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``serial`` driver may be used when the device uses a serial console. The
following may be configured:

* ``port``: string [required]
    Path to the serial device on the host running the MTDA agent (for
    example /dev/ttyS0).

* ``rate``: integer [optional]
    The baud rate used by the device to communicate with the MTDA agent. This
    setting defaults to ``115200``.

``telnet`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some power distribution racks also include serial interfaces that are exposed
to remote clients via telnet. Some debug boards may also be attached to custom
hardware designs. The ``telnet`` driver may be used in such configurations and
supports the following settings:

* ``host``: string [required]
    Hostname of the telnet server.

* ``port``: integer [optional]
    The port on which the telnet server is running (defaults to ``23``).

* ``delay``: integer [optional]
    Time interval (in seconds) to wait for before trying to reconnect to the
    telnet server (defaults to 5 seconds).

* ``timeout``: integer [optional]
    Timeout (in seconds) for each connect.

Power settings
--------------

The ``[power]`` section configures a power controller to power the device on or
off. The driver is selected with the ``variant`` setting. Driver-specific
settings are detailed below.

``aviosys_8800`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``aviosys_8800`` driver supports the USB controller power outlet from
Aviosys. The following settings are supported:

* ``pid``: integer [optional]
    The USB product ID of the power outlet (defaults to ``2303``).

* ``vid``: integer [optional]
    The USB vendor ID of the power outlet (defaults to ``067b``).

``docker`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``docker`` driver may be used to use a docker container instead of a
physical device. The following settings are supported:

* ``image``: string [optional]
    The docker image to use for this container. This setting defaults to
    ``alpine``.

* ``command``: string [optional]
    The command to execute when the container is started. The default
    commmand is ``sh``.

``gpio`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``gpio`` driver may be used to control a simple electric relay using GPIO
lines from the system running the MTDA agent. The following settings are
supported:

* ``gpio``: string [required]
    Specify the GPIO line(chip) and pin number which will be used to control the relay.
    Format: <gpiochipx>@<pin>
    If multiple GPIO lines and pins are used seperate the entries using ','.
    eg:
    ```
    # For single GPIO line
    gpio = gpiochip0@201
    # For multiple GPIO lines
    gpio = gpiochip0@201,gpiochip1@11,gpiochip0@203
    ```

``pduclient`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``pduclient`` driver may be used to let a LAVA instance control the power
of the device attached to MTDA. The following settings are supported:

* ``daemon``: string [required]
    Determines the hostname of the hostname which is running ``lavapdu-listen``
    to which the MTDA agent can connect to and send power commands.

* ``hostname``: string [required]
    The PDU which will run power commands sent by the MTDA agent.

* ``port``: integer [required]
    The port on the specified PDU to which the device is connected.

``qemu`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``qemu`` driver may be used to use QEMU/KVM instead of a physical device.
The following settings are supported:

* ``bios``: string [optional]
    The BIOS to be loaded by QEMU/KVM.

* ``cpu``: string [optional]
    The CPU to be emulated by QEMU/KVM.

* ``smp``: integer [optional]
    ``smp=<NUMBER>`` specifies the number of cores the guest is permitted to
    use. The number can be higher than the available cores on the host system.
    Use ``smp=0`` to use all currently available cores.

* ``executable``: string [optional]
    The QEMU/KVM executable to use as system emulator. This setting defaults
    to ``kvm``

* ``hostname``: string [optional]
    Name of emulated machine to be provided by QEMU/KVM internal DHCP server.

* ``machine``: string [optional]
    The QEMU/KVM machine to emulate.

* ``memory``: integer [optional]
    The amount of memory (in mega-bytes) for the emulated machime (defaults to
    512 MiB).

* ``pflash_ro``: string [optional]
    Path to the read-only firmware flash.

* ``pflash_rw``: string [optional]
    Path to the read-write firmware flash.

* ``storage``: string [optional]
    Path to the emulated machine storage. Use ``storage.0``, ``storage.1``,
    etc. if more than one system drive should be emulated.

* ``storage.size``: integer [optional]
    Size in GB for emulated machine storage. Use ``storage.0.size``,
    ``storage.1.size``, etc. if more than one system drive should be emulated.

    *Note* an existing storage device will not be recreated or deleted based
    on a config change. To trigger recreation delete your storage devices
    manualy.

* ``swtpm``: string [optional]
    Path to the ``swtpm`` binary to support emulation of a TPM device.

* ``watchdog``: string [optional]
    Name of the watchdog driver provided by QEMU/KVM for the selected machine.

``shellcmd`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``shellcmd`` driver may be used to control power switch with custom shell
commands, e.g. curl requests:

* ``on-cmd``: string [required]
    Power-on shell command. The return code should be 1 on success.

* ``off-cmd``: string [required]
    Power-off shell command. The return code should be 1 on success.

* ``check-on``: string [required]
    Shell command to check the power state. Should return 0 if power is on, 1
    if it is off. Any other return code is interpreted as error.

``usbrelay`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``usbrelay`` driver may be used to control USB HID relays attached to the
system running the MTDA agent. The following settings are supported:

* ``lines``: string [required]
    Comma separated list of lines to toggle relays driving power of
    the device.

Shared storage settings
-----------------------

The ``[storage]`` section configures a shared storage device that may be used
either from the device under test or from the host running the MTDA agent. The
driver is selected with the ``variant`` setting. Driver-specific settings are
detailed below.

``samsung`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``samsung`` driver supports both SD Mux and SD Wire and may used to share
a SD card between the DUT and host. The following settings are supported:

* ``device``: string [optional]
  Block device for the shared storage as seen on the host (defaults to
  ``/dev/sda``)

* ``serial``: string [optional]
  Identifier of the sdmux/sdwire device to use (defaults to ``sdmux``). Use
  ``sd-mux-ctrl`` to list available devices.

``usbf`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``usbf`` driver adds a Mass Storage function to the USB composite
configuration to expose either a file or a physical device or partition to
the DUT as a Mass Storage device. The following settings are supported:

* ``device``: string [optional]
  Block device for the shared storage as seen on the host. This is the
  same as ``file`` but a warning will be issued if the specified file
  is not a block device. When both ``device`` and ``file`` are set,
  ``file`` will be used.

* ``file``: string [optional]
  File or block device for the shared storage as seen on the host.

Timeout settings
----------------

The ``[timeouts]`` section allows various timeouts to be configured:

* ``lock``: integer [optional]
  Automatically release the DUT after the specified number of minutes.

* ``power``: integer [optional]
  Automatically power off the DUT if there are no active sessions. Use
  ``0`` to disable.

* ``session``: integer [optional]
  Mark a session inactive after the specified number of minutes.

Video capture settings
----------------------

The ``[video]`` section configures a video capture device to stream the
contents of the device display. The driver is selected with the ``variant``
setting. Driver-specific settings are detailed below.

``mjpg_streamer`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``mjpg_streamer`` driver supports Webcams and video capture devices
such as the Tihokile HDMI capture dongle. The following settings are
supported:

* ``device``: string [optional]
  Video device to grab MJPEG images from (defaults to ``/dev/video0``)

* ``port``: integer [optional]
  HTTP port to serve on (defaults to ``8080``)

* ``resolution``: string [optional]
  Resolution of the video stream (defaults to ``1280x780``)

* ``www``: string [optional]
  Path to static web pages to serve (defaults to
  ``/usr/share/mjpg-streamer/www``)

Point VLC (or similar) to ``http://<mtda-ip-or-name>:8080/?action=stream``
to stream video from the Device Under Test.

``qemu`` driver settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``qemu`` driver may be used with clients supporting the RFB (VNC)
protocol. The following settings are supported:

* ``sink``: string [optional]
  GStreamer sink element to be used on the client-side for rendering

The ``url()`` method of the driver will return the GStreamer pipeline
to be used on the client side.
